First draft of Not Hot Dog (#34)
codedex-io/projects: projects/detect-not-hot-dogs-with-hugging-face/general.md

---

> title: Detect Not Hot Dogs with hugging face API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Detect Not Hot Dogs with Hugging Face API
```

author: Dev-Docs
datePublished: 2022-09-17

> description: Create your own not-hotdog classifier

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Create your own "Not Hotdog" classifier to help Jian Yang from Silicon Valley.
```

Reviewer: Something like this i think ^

header: URL
tags:

>   - beginner

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  -  intermediate
```

  - python
---

> 

Reviewer: Delete extra newline.

# Detect "Not Hot Dogs" with hugging face API.

![jian-yang](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/avb-is-me/projects/main/projects/detect-not-hot-dogs-with-hugging-face/dev-docs-assets/dev-docs-VGh1LCAxNyBOb3YgMjAyMiAxOToyMjowNyBHTVQ=.png?raw=true)

> **Prerequisites:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Prerequisites:** Hugging Face account, Python 3  
```

> \-A hugging Face Account

Reviewer 2: **Prerequisites:** Hugging Face, Python fundamentals

You don't need to specify the account, since we're using the library in general

\-Python 3

**Read Time:** 30 Minutes

> ## Introduction:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Introduction
```

> Unlock the power of innovation around detecting if an image is a hot dog or a "not hot dog" just like Jian Yang from Silicon Valley using machine learning models on hugging face.  To do this we will be using [Hugging Face](https://huggingface.co/), a community and platform that hosts a bunch of open source machine learning models, datasets, and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlock the power of innovation around detecting if an image is a hot dog or a "not hot dog" just like Jian Yang from Silicon Valley using machine learning models on hugging face.  

[add YouTube embed or GIF here]

To do this we will be using [Hugging Face](https://huggingface.co/), a community and platform that hosts a bunch of open source machine learning models, datasets, and more.

Let's get started! 🌭
```

Reviewer: Can we do something like this? Add add YouTube embed or GIF link here.

> ## Create a nothotdog directory:

Reviewer: ## Setting Up

Create a new directory named `nothotdog`.  This is where our project will live.

Next, enter your directory in the terminal, so we can start getting ready for our code:

```bash
cd nothotdog
```

Reviewer: I think the two sections can be combined like so ^

Create a new directory named `nothotdog`.  This is where our project will live.

## Cd into the nothotdog directory:

Enter your directory so we can start getting ready for our code.

## Create the virtual environment

> Lets create a virtual environment or venv, which is a isolated environment that contains a Python installation in addition to other packages.  If you want to learn more check out this [Link](https://link-url-here.org](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's create a virtual environment or `venv`, which is an isolated environment that contains a Python installation in addition to other packages.  If you want to learn more check out this [Link](https://link-url-here.org](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html).
```
Can we also put a link for "virtual environment" here?

```shell
python3 -m venv .venv
```

> ## Activate the virtual environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, let's activate the virtual environment:
```

Let's take out the heading and turn it into a sentence.

```
source .venv/bin/activate
```

> ## Install the flask

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Install Flask
```

> Now we are going to install flask which is a web framework in Python that makes it easy create to web applications and APIs.  Here is a [Link](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/2.2.x/) if you want to learn more about Flask.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now we are going to install Flask, which is a web framework in Python that makes it easy create to web applications and APIs. You can read more about it [here](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/2.2.x/).
```

```shell
python -m pip install flask
```

> ## Lets create a templates folder for out html

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Create a templates folder for HTML
```

> ## Lets create a templates folder for out html

Reviewer 2: Add title case, and uppercase HTML. 
For the future, make sure that your headings don't start with "let's". 
"Create ..." is a better heading.

In flask, if we are going to have html files we typically store them in a folder called templates so flask can find it.  It should look like below.

```
├── root folder
│   ├── templates
```

> ## Create a file called index.html.

Reviewer 2: This heading and the next heading can be removed, and replaeced with regular text.

> In the templates folder create an index.html file.

Reviewer: Bold all file names (https://github.com/codedex-io/projects/blob/main/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md#formatting)

## Add the html code

Go into the index html code and copy and paste the code below. It is just a simple form that will post to an API route on our flask server.

```php-template
<!-- templates/index.html -->
<html>
    <head>
    </head>
    <body>
        <h1>Hot dog or Not Hot dog?</h1>
        <form method="post" action="{{ url_for('upload') }}" enctype="multipart/form-data">
            <input type="file" name="file1">
            <input type="submit" value="Submit">
        </form>
    </body>
</html>
```

It is important to note `method="post" action="{{ url_for('upload') }}"` in our form.  This tells our form two things, what action we want to do which is `POST` and what API route to send our data which is going `/upload`.

## Create an .env file

> Create an `.env` file at the root of the project.  This is where we will place our hugging face variables

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create an `.env` file at the root of the project. This is where we will place our Hugging Face variables.
```

## Add variables to the .env file

> Open the env variable add `HUGGING_FACE_API_URL= `and `HUGGING_FACE_API_KEY=`. This is where we place the hugging face information. We can actually fill the url with the prefilled model we are using.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Open the .env file and add `HUGGING_FACE_API_URL= `and `HUGGING_FACE_API_KEY=`, ading in your API key and URL. This is where we place the hugging face information. We can actually fill the url with the prefilled model we are using.
```

```shell
HUGGING_FACE_API_URL=https://api-inference.huggingface.co/models/julien-c/hotdog-not-hotdog
HUGGING_FACE_API_KEY=
```

## Create a hugging face token:

Then go to https://huggingface.co/settings/tokens and create a token.

![hugging face](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/avb-is-me/projects/main/projects/detect-not-hot-dogs-with-hugging-face/dev-docs-assets/dev-docs-VGh1LCAxNyBOb3YgMjAyMiAyMTowMDozMSBHTVQ=.png?raw=true)

Now fill your `HUGGING_FACE_API_KEY` with that value.

## Create the server file

> ```shell

Reviewer 2: Can we do this without Linux? We can just tell the user to create a server file any way they want, they don't have to use bash.

touch web.py
```

## Import the necessary libaries

> We are using a flask, and couple of built in libaries to handle files and json.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We are using Flask, and a couple of built in libaries to handle file types like json.
```

Reviewer 2: Make sure that Flask and other libraries/platforms are used as uncountable nouns.

Reviewer 2: Also, these libraries' use cases can definitely be elaborated upon further.

```py
def upload():
    file = request.files['file1']
    modeldata = query(file)
    return jsonify(modeldata)
```

Nice now all of our flask code is done!

## Now run the project.

```shell
python3 web.py
```

## Bonus implement the successor not Bannana.

The not\_hot\_dog model was original created by Julien C at https://huggingface.co/julien-c. Now the fun thing is you can actually train your own version of the model which we can save for another time, but in the meantime you can replace your `HUGGING_FACE_API_URL` with one I created for not bannanas. Just upload pictures of Bannanas instead of hot dogs.

## Replace your Url

Just set your `HUGGING_FACE_API_URL` in your `.env` file to `https://api-inference.huggingface.co/models/andrewvanbeek/autotrain-not-something-2133568871`.

```shell
HUGGING_FACE_API_URL=https://api-inference.huggingface.co/models/andrewvanbeek/autotrain-not-something-2133568871
```

> Now run the project again and upload bannanas or anything not bannanas.

Reviewer: Let's have a Conclusion section after everything:

See the bottom here:

https://github.com/codedex-io/projects/blob/main/projects/build-a-discord-bot-with-python/build-a-discord-bot-with-python.mdx

header: URL
tags:
  - intermediate
  - python
---

# Detect "Not Hot Dogs" with hugging face API.

![jian-yang](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/avb-is-me/projects/main/projects/detect-not-hot-dogs-with-hugging-face/dev-docs-assets/dev-docs-VGh1LCAxNyBOb3YgMjAyMiAxOToyMjowNyBHTVQ=.png?raw=true)

**Prerequisites:** Hugging Face, HTML, Python Fundamentals

**Read Time:** 30 Minutes

## Introduction

Unlock the power of innovation around detecting if an image is a hot dog or a "not hot dog" just like Jian Yang from Silicon Valley using machine learning models on hugging face.  

[![IMAGE ALT TEXT HERE](https://img.youtube.com/vi/ACmydtFDTGs/0.jpg)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ACmydtFDTGs)

To do this we will be using [Hugging Face](https://huggingface.co/), a community and platform that hosts a bunch of open source machine learning models, datasets, and more.

Let's get started! 🌭

## Setting Up

Create a new directory named nothotdog. This is where our project will live.

Next, enter your directory in the terminal, so we can start getting ready for our code:

```shell
cd nothotdog
```

## Create the Virtual Environment

> Let's create a virtual environment or `venv`, which is an isolated environment that contains a Python installation in addition to other packages.  If you want to learn more check out this [Link](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's create a virtual environment or `venv`, which is an isolated environment that contains a Python installation in addition to other packages. If you want to learn more check out this [link](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html).
```

```shell
python3 -m venv .venv
```

Now, let's activate the virtual environment:

```
source .venv/bin/activate
```

## Install Flask

Now we are going to install Flask, which is a web framework in Python that makes it easy create to web applications and APIs. You can read more about it [here](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/2.2.x/).

```shell
python -m pip install flask
```

## Install Dotenv

> We also have install `dotenv` which we use to load environment variables.  You can find the packlage link [here](https://pypi.org/project/python-dotenv/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We also have install the `dotenv` library which we use to load environment variables.  You can find the packlage link [here](https://pypi.org/project/python-dotenv/).
```

```shell
pip install python-dotenv
```

## Install Requests

> The last package we have to add is `requests` which is a libary to handle http requests.  You can find the packlage link [here](https://pypi.org/project/requests/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The last package we have to add is `requests` which is a libary to handle http requests. You can find the packlage link [here](https://pypi.org/project/requests/).
```

```shell
pip install python-dotenv
```

## Create a templates folder for our HTML

> In flask, if we are going to have HTML files we typically store them in a folder called templates so flask can find it.  Create a folder called templates.  It should look like below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Flask, if we are going to have HTML files we typically store them in a folder called templates so Flask is able to find them.  Create a folder called templates, which should end up looking like this: 
```

```
├── root folder
│   ├── templates
```

> ## Create a file called index.html.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Create a file called index.html
```

In the templates folder create a **index.html** file.

## Add the HTML code

Go into the `index.html` code and copy and paste the code below. It is just a simple form that will post to an API route on our flask server.

```php-template
<!-- templates/index.html -->
<html>
    <head>
    </head>
    <body>
        <h1>Hot dog or Not Hot dog?</h1>
        <form method="post" action="{{ url_for('upload') }}" enctype="multipart/form-data">
            <input type="file" name="file1">
            <input type="submit" value="Submit">
        </form>
    </body>
</html>
```

> It is important to note `method="post" action="{{ url_for('upload') }}"` in our form.  This tells our form two things, what action we want to do which is `POST` and what API route to send our data which is going `/upload`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is important to note `method="post" action="{{ url_for('upload') }}"` in our form. This tells our form two things: what action we want to perform which is `POST` and what API route to send our data which is going `/upload`.
```

## Create an .env file

Create an `.env` file at the root of the project. This is where we will place our Hugging Face variables.

## Add variables to the .env file

> Open the .env file and add `HUGGING_FACE_API_URL= `and `HUGGING_FACE_API_KEY=`, ading in your API key and URL. This is where we place the hugging face information. We can actually fill the url with the prefilled model we are using.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Open the `.env` file and add `HUGGING_FACE_API_URL= `and `HUGGING_FACE_API_KEY=`, ading in your API key and URL. This is where we place the hugging face data to allow us to use hugging face's models. 
```

```shell
HUGGING_FACE_API_URL=https://api-inference.huggingface.co/models/julien-c/hotdog-not-hotdog
HUGGING_FACE_API_KEY=
```

## Create a Hugging Face token:

Go to https://huggingface.co/settings/tokens and create a token.

![hugging face](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/avb-is-me/projects/main/projects/detect-not-hot-dogs-with-hugging-face/dev-docs-assets/dev-docs-VGh1LCAxNyBOb3YgMjAyMiAyMTowMDozMSBHTVQ=.png?raw=true)

Now fill your `HUGGING_FACE_API_KEY` with that value.

## Create the server file

> At the root of our folder create a file called `web.py`.  This is where all of our `flask` server code will live.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At the root of our folder create a file called `web.py`. This is where all of our Flask server code will be.
```

> ## Import the necessary libaries

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Import the necessary libraries
```
